hi everyone uh welcome to the ipfs core
implementations weekly sync for monday
the 24th of august 2020.
i am a king brain i will be your host we
are going to go through
uh our high priority initiatives and our
other initiatives and then
questions and design reviews and all
that fun stuff
um so the first thing to talk about is
upcoming and shipped releases
we can talk about that
yeah so agaves 0.7 is almost there
um all of the features are basically
in uh there's just uh one or two bugs
that
we are running up against before we put
together the rc
so hopefully early this week meaning
the next couple of days
yeah and then jslippydp0.29
uh we're working on the final bits for
that so that will
include uh un8 array support
across the board and then we'll also
include gossip sub
1v1 along with signed appear records
so hopefully we should have that um i'd
imagine maybe
maybe midweek
uh js ipfs 0.50 will be released shortly
after that it's basically
yeah it's waiting on the p2p release and
it will contain
the uh pinning refactor so storing pins
in the data store for much speed and
great benefit
uh yeah so next up is uh pinning
services
the client work for go is still pending
um the rc
finishing up and we can move over to
working on that
oh i think there has been i don't know
if it's going to happen
but there's been some discussion about
hector might have some time to add
api support in cluster but that is
tbd and do not count on it
uh the ed25519 default key
is is merged all the things are merged
yeah they pass all the tests and
everything it's great there is a
uh as part of that we found there was an
issue last week
and um jsipfest that we found with
inline keys
like ips was not handling that properly
um that has subsequently been fixed
um but it's currently in master and
jsipfess in an 0.49.1 rc so i imagine
that will just land in
0.50 probably later this week
yeah we also have to still release we'll
probably do this when we do the ipfs
release but the http clients and stuff
that we'll need to handle the
because we've both switched to elliptic
curve keys and sort of at the same time
switched ips's default representation to
base 36 cids
um so making sure that that all the code
for handling all that in the http apis
or at least the go http apis is done um
but we need to do the release for those
is it um is it worth doing a patch
release of js ipfs with the um
ips key validation yes
also because it has the fix for the js
ipfs utils which breaks pub sub
so we should we should do that
yeah the um like the only time you see
pub sub break is if you
built your own version of uh the browser
node from source uh because the
the the change went in after um
we've done the last release so the
minified version doesn't have the
broken uh utils enough but yeah yeah i
mean if cutting that release
is uh quick i would just
go for it um just because like
ips was also doing some nasty things
when trying to do resolve
which make things slow so this will also
help speed that up it's like the same
patch
that uh go made to remove trying to
fetch the public key
before you actually fetch the record if
you didn't already have it which just
made things unnecessarily slow
due to legacy reasons but we don't need
that anymore so resolution should be
faster
cool i'll show that before matching the
pinning stuff and
you an area isn't that cool all right
moving on
sucker removal
we're removing it
yeah it's yeah removed in ipfs
or disabled and ipfs little p2p defaults
for removing it
yes and i believe like there's work so
we're updating the daemons because we
run
um a few of the relays that ipfs uses
we'll also be updating those um to
remove
secio as well
should we do are we gonna do two golden
ptp releases this week
or are we gonna try and bundle them up
and just do them together
i don't think we need to do a second one
right we just need to do the one that
you're working on
well yeah i just need to know if there's
anything else required for
merging the secio removal pr or just do
it
yeah i think we can just do that because
yeah i think it might already been
merged
actually okay all right if not then
yeah it should be mergeable um and then
we can do a minor release
so that's already been notified people
have been notified on discuss
um so you can still re-enable it and
bring your own config if you need to
but by default we will not ship with it
i guess related to the elliptic curve
keys one more thing
uh or not quite but um
go multi-outer has support for
cids um in peer ids or pid is
represented as cids
so that means that if you get a
multi-adder that has like
you know slash p2p slash baffy something
in it
that will work um
we will eventually try to move all of
the p2p
multi-outer resolution this way but not
everyone has the cid code yet in all of
the different implementations so this
will take longer
okay moving on the rust ipfs initiative
yeah thanks um we are working towards
pinning we're hoping to get that in
within the next week maybe next two
weeks
um so that just involved a lot of
refactoring but also getting a dht
working as well so that's a lot of nice
uh conformance tests that are passing
um and uh dht
content discovery works really well
but publishing uh is tricky because
there's no autonat
stuff in uh the rustling p2p
implementation
i noticed there's a couple pull requests
that are in there
um so maybe those need to get reviewed i
don't know if anybody has any uh inroads
to parody
uh nudge them on that stuff and we'll be
able to publish content on the uh dht
um otherwise uh
things are things are moving along
cool uh next up is live p2p sign peer
records and gossip sub v 1.1
in javascript yeah so uh the pub sub
interface
is basically ready it was mostly
finished last week and
jacob did enormous review
last week and a second pass today so i
think we are
mostly ready for merging it the flat sub
pr is also updating the implementation
to use this interface
steam's also ready and reviewed and
exactly the same
for gossip so so we have basically
one thing to finish in gossip 1.1
basically we have a flaky test regarding
opportunistic crafting
and i will be looking into it later
today and hopefully
uh if i get it fixed i think it's the
only blocker left so that we can start
merging and releasing everything unless
uh
any last-minute review stuff
happens and yeah also uh i tested it
in both suggested php and js ipfs in the
jslip hp you are basically running the
interrupt tests with an older version of
globally while we don't have the demand
updated
so we are basically running the uh jsp
with gossip sub 1.1
and goalie php with the gossip sub 1.0
and everything is good which is also a
good sign
but it would be cool to test with the
gospel one not one
but then i tested in jsrpfs which
currently tests with the latest go ipfs
and this one is
already using gossip 1.1 and interrupt
tests
are working as well so yeah i think we
are pretty confident that everything is
cool
in interrupt part of things
uh going to the next item the jsimpler
discoverability and connectivity
i have no plate this week but also this
pops up stuff happens i will immediately
pick this up so yeah
next week i will for sure have updates
on that
well i think a lot of the at least the
goa
gold may be 0.10.3
um i think that got merged into wwe um
but we'll need
the latest changes but i think that that
will at least get us
um the the gossip sub
so if there is further delay then we can
we can do that but i think we can
probably wait until the next little pdp
version is is done
okay uh that is it for the high priority
initiatives moving on to the other
initiatives
um sub domain gateway
i have no lydle no reba
uh there's no merge the pr
and go ipfs for um
wildcard gateways
um so that there's a quest
request for people to be able to have
you know gateways that are named like
you know my my thing dot
username dot you know
the tld um and so now we have
we have support for that
[Music]
so the unix of s uh v 1.5 and guy pfs
um not update as far as i'm aware
uh pinning system revamp uh i'm gonna
merge it
like tomorrow morning um after doing
this uh point release
uh of js ipfs and then it needs
it's like all the all the uh pr's that
are required to be merged have been
merged uh the last thing is just the js
uh the p2p release which we've gone over
already
um dag service
it's me uh i didn't really have time for
it last week so
nothing happened there the next one is
improving web ui
file stuffs that pr got merged
i'm still working through the progress
bar
reports turns out web ui
had it at some point but it was ripped
out so there's a lot of things that need
to happen to get it to work
it was also semi-blocked on the
progress events that were
rejected and i think now we're gonna put
them back
in into the http client
so they do that's what they it will use
if not then we'll
fake it i mean the progress
um yeah this is it
cool so uh moving on uh design review
proposals
does anybody have a proposal for a
bike shared contest
come on that's so much fun
okay fine uh blockers and asks
anybody blocked um alex if you'll get a
chance to review some of the
non-js ipf as like the other libraries
that we pull in
uh there are a bunch of pull requests
there would be really good
yes i've been on holiday i am refreshed
and ready to review i'll be out most of
this week so
i won't have much done on mine
okay
any other blockers or asks
any questions
anything for the parking lot
okay yes uh we've got some we've got
well just briefly this is this is
the thing i guess fun one which is uh
once once this releases out for 0.7
um there are a few things that are like
definitely
going into 0.8 um including
the the pinning service work but
what what else makes it on there at the
top of the list
um is still a little bit up in the air
so if you would like to lobby me for
your favorite feature
uh now would be the time
um now not meeting this meeting but over
the next
week
only pinning services
okay good if there are no more
uh parking lot items then we can draw
this meeting to a close
uh please fill in your async updates
um let people know what you're going to
be working on
thank you very much everyone uh this has
been the ips core representations wiki
sync for monday the 25th of august 2020.
stay safe out there see you on the
internet
bye